Readme.md, before:

﻿<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 MD041 -->
<div align="center">

<img src="data-table.png" alt="TypedSpark.NET" width="150px"/>

# Azure Data Table Wrapper

Wrapper functions to easily interact with Azure table storage and Cosmos

</div>

> The library uses Microsoft's `Azure.Data.Tables` package to perform data operations.</p>
> The library separates commands and queries, and provides separate methods to be used easily on your data tables.

## :tada: Features

:bulb: Separation of command and query operations.

:bulb: Query and command responses are strongly typed with clear intentions of what will be returned.

:bulb: Support for either managed identity or connection string through dependency injection.

## :tada: Usages

:high_brightness: Query with partition and row key

Use the `GetEntityAsync` method in `IQueryService` for this.
```csharp
var op = await queryService.GetEntityAsync<ProductDataModel>(
    "ProductsDomain", // named service client
    "products", // table name // table name
    "TECH",
    "PROD1",
    new CancellationToken()
    );

// the operation returns the possible outputs, which you can pick and choose to operate on.
op.Response switch
{
    QueryResult.SingleResult<ProductDataModel> r => ,// do things
    QueryResult.EmptyResult e => ,// do things        
    QueryResult.QueryFailedResult f => ,// handle things,
    _ => ,// handle things more
};
```

:high_brightness: Query with LINQ expressions

Use the `GetEntityListAsync` in `IQueryService` for this.

```csharp
var op = await queryService.GetEntityListAsync<ProductDataModel>(
    "ProductsDomain", // named service client
    "products", // table name
    x => x.Category == "TECH", // filter to apply as LINQ expression
    new CancellationToken()
);

// the operation returns the possible outputs, which you can pick and choose to operate on.
op.Response switch
{
    QueryResult.CollectionResult<ProductDataModel> products => ,// do things,
    QueryResult.SingleResult<ProductDataModel> s => ,// do things,
    QueryResult.EmptyResult e => ,// do things,             
    QueryResult.QueryFailedResult f => ,// handle things
    _ => // handle things more
};
```

:high_brightness: Upsert an entity

```csharp
var productDataModel = ProductDataModel.New("TECH", "PROD1", 259.99d);
var commandOp = await commandService.UpsertAsync(
    "ProductsDomain", // named service client
    "products", // table name
    productDataModel, // table entity to upsert
    new CancellationToken()
);

// the operation returns the possible outputs, which you can pick and choose to operate on.
commandOp.Operation switch
  {
      CommandOperation.CommandSuccessOperation _ => ,// do things
      CommandOperation.CommandFailedOperation f => ,// handle things
      _ => // handle things more
  }
```

:high_brightness: Update an entity

Use the `UpdateAsync` method in `ICommandService` for this.

```csharp
var updateOp = await commandService.UpdateAsync(
    category,
    table,
    ProductDataModel.New("TECH", "PROD1", 100.50d),
    new CancellationToken()
);

updateOp.Operation switch
{
    CommandOperation.CommandSuccessOperation => ,// do things
    CommandOperation.CommandFailedOperation f => , // handle things
    _ => // handle things more
};
```
## How to use it

:high_brightness: Install package and configure

Install the `CCHAT.Azure.Storage.Table.Wrapper` from nuget. </br>
Then register it as a dependency either using `RegisterTablesWithConnectionString` or `RegisterTablesWithManagedIdentity`. </p>

This will allow you to register the `TableServiceClient` as a named instance. </p>
In the below example `ProductsDomain` is the named client.

```csharp

// If you are using an ASP.NET application
builder.Services.RegisterTablesWithConnectionString(
            "ProductsDomain",
            "[Connection string for the storage account]"
        );

// This is from the sample console application in the examples section.
var host = Host.CreateDefaultBuilder()
    .ConfigureServices(services =>
    {
        services.RegisterTablesWithConnectionString(
         "ProductsDomain",
         "[Connection string for the storage account]"
        );
    })
    .Build();
    
```

:high_brightness: Inject the dependencies `IQueryService` or `ICommandService` or both to your class.

:high_brightness: Use the respective methods to interact with the table.

### Queries

```csharp

// queries
var readOp = await queryService.GetEntityAsync<ProductDataModel>(
        "ProductsDomain", // the named client
        "products", // the table name
        "TECH", // partition key
        "PROD1", // row key
        new CancellationToken()
    );

// depending on the response, you can decide what to do next
readOp.Response switch
      {
          QueryResult.SingleResult<ProductDataModel> r => GetSuccessResponse(r),
          QueryResult.QueryFailedResult f => GetFailedResponse(f),
          _ => GetServerErrorResponse()
      }

```

### Commands

```csharp

// commands
var productDataModel = ProductDataModel.New("TECH", "PROD1", 259.99d);
var commandOp = await commandService.UpsertAsync(
    "ProductsDomain", // named client
    "products", // table name
    productDataModel, // table entity to upsert
    new CancellationToken()
);

// depending on the response, you can decide what to do next
commandOp.Operation switch
  {
      CommandOperation.CommandSuccessOperation _ => // do stuff,
      CommandOperation.CommandFailedOperation f => // do error stuff,
      _ => throw new NotSupportedException()
  }

```

:high_brightness: That's it!

## Attributions

[Icons created by juicy_fish](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icon/data-table_3575798)

Commit message:

chore: changing the repo and package name to libs-funky-azure-datatable-extensions

Readme.md, after:

﻿<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 MD041 -->
<div align="center">

<img src="data-table.png" alt="TypedSpark.NET" width="150px"/>

# Funky Azure Data Table Extensions

Functions to easily interact with Azure table storage and Cosmos. The library has been developed using C# with functional style programming.

</div>

> The library uses Microsoft's `Azure.Data.Tables` package to perform data operations.</p>
> The library separates commands and queries, and provides separate methods to be used easily on your data tables.

## :tada: Features

:bulb: Separation of command and query operations.

:bulb: Query and command responses are strongly typed with clear intentions of what will be returned.

:bulb: Support for either managed identity or connection string through dependency injection.

## :tada: Usages

:high_brightness: Query with partition and row key

Use the `GetEntityAsync` method in `IQueryService` for this.
```csharp
var op = await queryService.GetEntityAsync<ProductDataModel>(
    "ProductsDomain", // named service client
    "products", // table name // table name
    "TECH",
    "PROD1",
    new CancellationToken()
    );

// the operation returns the possible outputs, which you can pick and choose to operate on.
op.Response switch
{
    QueryResult.SingleResult<ProductDataModel> r => ,// do things
    QueryResult.EmptyResult e => ,// do things        
    QueryResult.QueryFailedResult f => ,// handle things,
    _ => ,// handle things more
};
```

:high_brightness: Query with LINQ expressions

Use the `GetEntityListAsync` in `IQueryService` for this.

```csharp
var op = await queryService.GetEntityListAsync<ProductDataModel>(
    "ProductsDomain", // named service client
    "products", // table name
    x => x.Category == "TECH", // filter to apply as LINQ expression
    new CancellationToken()
);

// the operation returns the possible outputs, which you can pick and choose to operate on.
op.Response switch
{
    QueryResult.CollectionResult<ProductDataModel> products => ,// do things,
    QueryResult.SingleResult<ProductDataModel> s => ,// do things,
    QueryResult.EmptyResult e => ,// do things,             
    QueryResult.QueryFailedResult f => ,// handle things
    _ => // handle things more
};
```

:high_brightness: Upsert an entity

```csharp
var productDataModel = ProductDataModel.New("TECH", "PROD1", 259.99d);
var commandOp = await commandService.UpsertAsync(
    "ProductsDomain", // named service client
    "products", // table name
    productDataModel, // table entity to upsert
    new CancellationToken()
);

// the operation returns the possible outputs, which you can pick and choose to operate on.
commandOp.Operation switch
  {
      CommandOperation.CommandSuccessOperation _ => ,// do things
      CommandOperation.CommandFailedOperation f => ,// handle things
      _ => // handle things more
  }
```

:high_brightness: Update an entity

Use the `UpdateAsync` method in `ICommandService` for this.

```csharp
var updateOp = await commandService.UpdateAsync(
    category,
    table,
    ProductDataModel.New("TECH", "PROD1", 100.50d),
    new CancellationToken()
);

updateOp.Operation switch
{
    CommandOperation.CommandSuccessOperation => ,// do things
    CommandOperation.CommandFailedOperation f => , // handle things
    _ => // handle things more
};
```
## How to use it

:high_brightness: Install package and configure

Install the `Funky.Azure.DataTable.Extensions` from nuget. </br>
Then register it as a dependency either using `RegisterTablesWithConnectionString` or `RegisterTablesWithManagedIdentity`. </p>

This will allow you to register the `TableServiceClient` as a named instance. </p>
In the below example `ProductsDomain` is the named client.

```csharp

// If you are using an ASP.NET application
builder.Services.RegisterTablesWithConnectionString(
            "ProductsDomain",
            "[Connection string for the storage account]"
        );

// This is from the sample console application in the examples section.
var host = Host.CreateDefaultBuilder()
    .ConfigureServices(services =>
    {
        services.RegisterTablesWithConnectionString(
         "ProductsDomain",
         "[Connection string for the storage account]"
        );
    })
    .Build();
    
```

:high_brightness: Inject the dependencies `IQueryService` or `ICommandService` or both to your class.

:high_brightness: Use the respective methods to interact with the table.

### Queries

```csharp

// queries
var readOp = await queryService.GetEntityAsync<ProductDataModel>(
        "ProductsDomain", // the named client
        "products", // the table name
        "TECH", // partition key
        "PROD1", // row key
        new CancellationToken()
    );

// depending on the response, you can decide what to do next
readOp.Response switch
      {
          QueryResult.SingleResult<ProductDataModel> r => GetSuccessResponse(r),
          QueryResult.QueryFailedResult f => GetFailedResponse(f),
          _ => GetServerErrorResponse()
      }

```

### Commands

```csharp

// commands
var productDataModel = ProductDataModel.New("TECH", "PROD1", 259.99d);
var commandOp = await commandService.UpsertAsync(
    "ProductsDomain", // named client
    "products", // table name
    productDataModel, // table entity to upsert
    new CancellationToken()
);

// depending on the response, you can decide what to do next
commandOp.Operation switch
  {
      CommandOperation.CommandSuccessOperation _ => // do stuff,
      CommandOperation.CommandFailedOperation f => // do error stuff,
      _ => throw new NotSupportedException()
  }

```

:high_brightness: That's it!

## Attributions

[Icons created by juicy_fish](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icon/data-table_3575798)
